We need to add ASIL labels to the refined architectural diagram.
Otherwise, we won't know which subsystems and elements require analysis under ISO 26262.
The general rule is that
functional safety requirements inherit the ASIL directly from the safety goal.
From the hazard analysis and risk assessment,
the lane departure warning safety goal was that the torque had to be limited.
We determined that the safety goal had ASIL
C. The two functional safety requirements for the lane departure warning
would then inherit the ASIL C. Because we allocated
these two functional safety requirements to electronic power steering,
the entire subsystem inherits the ASIL C classification.
But what about the ASIL of the camera in the car display subsystems?
We said earlier that the only relevant subsystem from
the functional safety standpoint was the electronic power steering.
We do not have any functional safety requirements for these two subsystems.
Therefore, we can mark the camera in the car display as QM.
As a reminder, a QM rating stands for quality management.
Any part of the architecture where the QM rating is no longer relevant to
a functional safety analysis because the risk is already at acceptable levels.
Here's a quick review of what we have accomplished so far.
We derived functional safety requirements from the safety goals,
refined the architecture and allocated the functional safety requirements to
the architecture and we determine the risk levels for the three subsystems.
Next, we'll see if there are any ways to lower the ASIL for any of our system elements.